 Fool Moon

1. Harry meets Kim Delaney at McAnally's, where she is buying him dinner in exchange for information about a greater circle intended to contain a creature of spirit, mortal flesh, and flesh *and* spirit. Harry withholds some knowledge that such things exist, deeming it too dangerous for Kim to know. Kim grows angry at Harry for not trusting her with the information and storms out.  As Harry is stewing, Karrin Murphy enters. Harry is annoyed with her for being out of touch for so long, partially causing his current bout of poverty. She reveals there has been a murder, and away we go. 

2. They leave McAnally's in Murphy's car driving fast to get to the scene before others can arrive. Murphy reveals there has been more than one murder when Harry points out this one is outside of CPD jurisdiction. The victim is Spike, an enforcer for Marcone, and the venue is the currently-in-construction new Varsity club. He had been brutally mauled by some sort of animal. Investigating, Harry finds a paw print, and deduces that a werewolf is responsible. He also gathers a glass shard with blood on it, just as they are interrupted by Agent Denton and his band of FBI goons. Denton orders Murphy and Dresden removed. Agent Benn attempts to physically remove Murphy, who resists being accosted. Agent Been grows instantly furious and draws her weapon and fires, missing Murphy only because Dresden knocks her aside. Agent Denton claims it was a misfire, and Murphy insists Dresden agree. The other two agents escort Murphy and Dresden outside. Dresden is certain Denton is hiding something.

3. In the car Murphy and Dresden discuss the trust fallout they've had since *Storm Front*. Harry empathizes and apologizes. Murphy agrees to trust him again because she needs help and reveals she was protecting Harry from legal action. 

4. While driving, Murphy reveals she has been under intense scrutiny from IA since she had the warrant for Dresden lifted, in combination with rumors of him being on Marcone's payroll. Harry realizes that her avoiding him has been to protect him. During the conversation he notices someone following them. Murphy outlines all the attacks to date, specifically their connections to Marcone *after* the FBI was brought in. Forensic evidence indicates bite marks from at least 3 different types of 'wolves' or 'wolf like weapons'.  Harry offers to pull together a full report on werewolves for the following day. As they approach McAnally's he notes they are still being followed. In the parking lot, Harry observes who he thinks has been following them.

5. Harry starts a tracking spell with the blood from the glass shard. It leads him to an abandoned department store, where he finds a group of awkward college-age kids arguing over continuing some mission to hunt down *them* or wait for *her* instructions. Harry decides to leave with this information when *she* shows up. Harry identifies her as the person who followed him and Murphy. She detects his presence, and orders the lights out. Harry attempts to follow before something knocks him down. He uses his pentacle-amulet light to find his way to the back door, where someone forces him to the ground and puts a gun to his head. 

6. After a brief ensuing conversation regarding both of them following leads without telling the other, Murphy wants to put out an APB on the suspects. Dresden convinces her not too, convinced these aren't the killers. Murphy agrees to wait until Dresden's report in the morning. 

7. Harry returns home to his lab, where he makes two potions, a pick-me-up potion, and a hide-in-plain-sight potion. He also consults Bob regarding werewolves. Bob provides information on four kinds of werewolves. General magic users who learn how to transmogrify and have to practice to learn wolf-like skills, Hexenwolves who use a talisman, but can be overcome by the wolf spirit over time, Lycanthropes who channel an inner spirit of rage to mentally be more wolf-like, and Loup-garous - people whose whole bloodline was curse to involuntarily transform on the full moon.  Harry releases Bob for the night to gather more information.

8. Harry groggily arrives at SI to deliver his report where he runs into Susan Rodriguez. They trade some information regarding IA, and werewolves. Dresden then runs into Agent Denton who lets him know IA is currently in with Murphy, and that he would carry Dresden's report to her. Dresden decides to agree, deeming any info in the report non confidential. He asks what Denton is hiding. Denton indicates he can't talk here, but Dresden doesn't get it.  Dresden calls Murphy to confirm receipt of the report. While he is grumpily leaving the precinct house Agent Harris catches up to him and asks if he will investigate a lead about a gang called the Streetwolves. Harry sees through the act and extracts a price of knowing what, if any, the FBI has on him, in general.

9. Harry arrives at the Full Moon Garage, which appears empty as he enters. He confronts the Street Wolves gang, and asks them if they know about the murders. They attack him. As Harry tries to escape, Parker, the leader of the street wolves, strives to keep his pack under control. During a glance towards Harry, they share a soulgaze, in which Harry finds out nothing about the murders, but knows for certain Parker now needs to murder him if he wants to retain power over his pack.  Harry berates himself as he drives to his office. When he enters, he is greeted by Gentleman Johnny Marcone and Hendricks. 

10. Marcone offers information on the case, in exchange for Dresden's loyalty. Dresden sees that Marcone is worried he might be the next victim, and refuses the offer.  After a brief exchange Marcone leaves, giving Dresden the lead to look for a Harley MacFinn and the Northwest Passage Project.

11. Dresden summons Chauncy for information. Chauncy demands one of Dresden's names in exchange for what he knows of the Northwest Passage Project, and Harry agrees. He learns it is a project to buy large amounts of land to make a nature preserve, and that Marcone is opposed to it. Also, MacFinn is heir to a bloodline Loup Garou curse. Chauncy tempts Dresden with information about his mother, making him furious, and then is banished again. Murphy calls with another murder at the same address Harry just got for Harley MacFinn.

12. Harry drives to the address, where a very angry Murphy shows him a greater summoning circle that has been wrecked, and Kim Delaney's mauled body. She proceeds to show him a picture of Harley MacFinn and Tera West as well as a much stronger greater summoning circle that had been ruined. Dresden understands Kim's earlier request now, and realizes why Murphy is so angry. Murphy arrests Dresden and handcuffs him.

13. Dresden is escorted to the back of a police car. Denton & crew have shown up on the scene. Tera West helps Harry escape if he promises to try to help MacFinn. He agrees, but doesn't quite make it before Agent Benn shoots him in the shoulder. Tera manages to help him escape over a fence, before Harry passes out. 

14. Dresden wakes up in a hotel room, where Tera West has bandaged his injuries. It is a few hours before sunset, and she insists on leaving immediately to get to MacFinn. Harry refuses until he gets some answers. He learns a soulgaze will not start on her. Tera has called the police in an effort to get Harry to hurry, it works. They drive to Wolf Lake Park, where Tera leads him into a wooded area. A man jumps him and starts choking him.

15. Harry works a difficult spell to shock his assailant with no focus or words. Shortly, it's established that this is MacFinn and they move to MacFinn's camp where Harry asks a lot of questions. He learns more about the curse, and reveals to MacFinn that Tera has been training Billy and Georgia. They are interrupted by a CPD search party looking for Dresden. Tera distracts them, and Dresden and MacFinn split up with a plan to meet up later. 

16. Harry makes his way to the nearest gas station, but MacFinn never shows. He calls Susan and offers her a story if she can give him a ride. He finds Tera behind the gas station, and learns MacFinn has been arrested. Susan picks them both up, and heads for Harry's apartment, which is being watched by the cops. Tera causes a distraction; Harry grabs his two potions, and some magical gear, and we're off to CPD Special Investigations. They drive to the station, Harry drinks his blending potion, and proceeds to walk into the station unnoticed. 

17. He makes his way to holding, and realizes MacFinn has already changed into the loup-garou. All hell breaks loose, lots of people die. Harry gets knocked silly. Chapter concludes with Murphy stepping in front of Dresden as the loup-garou charges. 

18. Murphy fires off a few silver rounds she made herself, delaying the loup-garou. She proceeds to try to arrest Harry, who is incredulous that she would. Harry is dragged back with Rudolph, and comes to. He realizes he has the blood from Murphy's shot's and the chapter ends with him getting the idea to put together a spell and gathering the gear to do so, then 
the literal sentence, "All hell breaks loose.", happens. 

19. Harry blasts a hole in the wall, and steps into the killing corridor. Murphy tries to jump the beast and her gun of silver bullets runs dry. Dresden blasts it into the building behind the building next door, then binds it with a snoopy spell. He walks out where Susan gathers him.

20. Harry encounters his double, sub-concious self. He's told he should be training Murphy, not shielding her, confronted with guilt about Susan "getting a good story", Harry's trust issues regarding Elaine - and all women he ever encounters, why is he actually trusting Tera West, and who the real killers are. 

  Harry's double reminds him about Marcone, that the police probably aren't on his side, and, most importantly, Parker and the Street Wolves probably want him dead. He is awoken by Tera West in Susan's car and informed they are being followed.

21. Harry intelligently leaps out of a moving car, chugs a pick-me-up-potion, wrecks Parker's ride, then proceeds to get the crap kicked out of him. He runs out of magical juice and can't even fire his blasting rod. As he is getting loaded into a trunk he sees one of the FBI agents, Harris, driving by and figures a few things out. 

22. Harry passed out and woke up again finding himself restrained in the Full Moon garage.  He tries unsuccessfully to free himself before Parker comes in, whom he overhears talking about Marcone wanting to talk to Dresden alive. He attempts to provoke Parker into fury so he would leave or attempt to get a weapon and give him time to continue freeing himself, and instead Parker just picks up a tire iron to kill him. 

23. Marcone arrives with Hendricks just in time to stop Parker from murderfest. Marcone indicates that Harley Macfinn is after him personally and again attempts to hire Dresden. Parker is enraged that Dresden might live. Harry goes along with the contract to put them off guard. Parker goes for Marcone. Harry breaks his legs free and runs, and is confronted by the FBI agents as he opens the door. Denton, Benn, and Wilson. Denton orders them to kill Harry. He slams the door and tries to sneak further back into the garage, as Marcone and Hendrick's fight the street wolves, and the FBI agents storm into the garage. 

24. As the Streetwolves and FBI agents fight, Harry makes his way to the back wall, where Tera West is digging under the wall. Harry makes his way out, and urges Tera and the Alphas to leave, but they have wounded that they cannot abandon. Harris attacks in wolf form, and the chapter closes with the wolf closing in on Harry. 

25. Dresden wrestles the wolf out of his belt, causing him to become human Agent Harris again, and then beats him unconscious. Tera wants to kill him, but Dresden doesn't allow it. As they start to load Georgia's van, Dresden slaps Harris awake and interrogates him to confirm his theory. The FBI agents took the belts to be able to murder Marcone, but wanted to frame the Lyncanthropes in the garage. He admits to the power of the belts influencing them, encouraging them to murder more innocent people, so the plan evolved to set up MacFinn as well. He tells Harris to deliver a warning to Denton, then he knew he'd be at Marcone's estate and that he was going to be there to stop them.

26. Harry gets into the van where Susan is driving. They go to Burger King to eat and discuss plans. Tera insists she is going with Dresden. They drive to Georgia's parents house, where Billy pulls Harry aside and they argue about whether the Alphas can come along. Billy convinces him. 

27.  Dresden finds Susan in a bedroom in the house. They whine a bit about not wanting to die, and opining about falling in love, amidst doing the deed. She then dresses him and gives him his new leather duster. She then explains she's coming, too, to drive the van and catch a good story. 

28. They arrive at Marcone’s estate. The place Tera finds to cross the wall is too far for Harry to run, so he goes over the wall in place while the pack goes around (“Macfinn will not even notice that the wall got in his way.”). Harry hexes a camera, proving he has some magical juice left. He goes over the wall, and waits for the Alphas, who never arrive.

29. N.b. “Wizards of my level of skill and strength (well, my usual levels) are few and far between-- Maybe no more than two dozen in the United States, with a slightly higher concentration of them in Europe, Africa, and Asia.”

     Harry leaves his hiding spot and sees Billy catch a tranquilizer dart from Marcone. He sees 6 sleeping Alphas, and the four Hexenwulfen, seemingly unrestrained from human morality. Harry is about to attempt to jump them, when Marcone and Hendricks reveal themselves. They discuss MacFinn’s arrival, Marcone’s desire that Dresden be delivered alive, and end with Marcone pointing out Dresden’s position to the Hexenwulfen. 

30. Harry initially runs, then hides, once Denton has passed him he comes in behind him and puts a gun to his head. Dresden removes Denton’s belt and orders him to force the other Hexenwulfen into the light. They remove their belts, but Denton orders them to bring ‘what was left at the treeline’. Harry and Denton argue for a bit and the Hexenwulfen return with Murphy as a prisoner. Harry flinches and Denton incapacitates him. 

  N.b. You can’t “thumb a trigger down”, he means “Thumb a hammer down”
 
31. Harry strategically locks Denton into a soul gaze before he has the chance to kill him. This buys him enough time for Marcone to come to the rescue and also announce that MacFinn had been detected and was soon to arrive. Despite Dresden’s warnings Marcone is double crossed by the FBI agents, taking out Hendricks at the same time. They are taken to a large pit, where Murphy, Tera, and the Alphas have already been confined. Marcone is suspended above the pit as bait, presumably. The chapter ends with the arrival of the loup-garou. 

32. Marcone and Dresden banter until Marcone produces a knife and throws it just right to sever the rope holding the platform allowing an escape route from the pit. Dresden and Tera make it out as the beast attacks. Tera stalls it while Dresden activates Agent Harris’ belt and goes furry in body and mind - all scenes with wolf-Harry are presented in a primal thinking narrative. 

  He takes down Agent Benn, first. Wilson-wolf appears and finishes Benn off. Harris barges in and fires on Wilson, mistaking him for an Alpha. Wilson, hurt, reverts to human form and the two of them have a gun fight while Dresden turns his attention to Denton. They fight, Dresden wins, Denton takes off his belt. Dresden loses control and is about to kill Denton, when Susan appears and Harry comes to his senses. 

  Murphy and the Alphas have made their way out of the pit. We hear Tera hurt, and MacFinn starts to come towards the group. It’s decided Murphy and Dresden will stall the creature, and attempt to help Marcone, while Susan takes the Alphas to safety. Murphy and Dresden immediately split up to lure the beast in opposite directions.

33. Harry goes to the pit and lowers Marcone enough to get him to the edge, but before they can free him the loup-garou attacks Dresen. He attempts fire magic and is just out of juice entirely. Dresden realizes his mother’s silver pentacle is inherited silver and makes a last ditch effort to prepare it for MacFinn’s final charge. Just as it is about to happen, Murphy steps out with a gun leveled at Dresden, assuming he is doing something malevolent, but the werewolf is charging towards her back. 

  Dresden throws the charged amulet, which behaves… magically, and kills MacFinn. He thinks Murphy shot him, and goes unconscious. 

34.  He awakes to Murphy explaining that Denton was coming at his back and she wasn’t shooting at him. Harry collects the wolf belts, Hendricks lived. Susan got her video. It subsequently disappeared. Tera shows up to say goodbye, where we sorta kinda learn that she is a wolfwere, not a werewolf.  Harry starts to piece together a common thread with bad guys trying to do bad things in Chicagoland. 
