Grave Peril

1. Open to Harry and Michael in the blue beetle racing to Cook County Hospital. Michael presses Harry on why he hasn’t told Susan that he loves her. They arrive.

2. They get to the nursery to discover the staff sleeping; the ghost of Agatha Hagglethorn is singing the newborns off to sleep. Battle ensues, the two heroes seemingly win, driving Hagglethorn back to the Nevernever, but she starts to affect the children from there. Michael urges Harry to follow her; he is resistant because he knows his Godmother can find him, but relents and opens a window to Faerie.

3. Flashback to the beginning of the day. Harry arrives at his office. Susan calls him; unhappy that he stood her up the previous evening, but is willing to relent if he gives her an exclusive on the ghost activity that is surging in Chicago. They make plans for the evening. As he is leaving the office, a young woman approaches. Dresden senses she is a low level practitioner. She begs for his help; afraid that she won’t live through the night without it. He brings her back into the office. 

4. Through conversation, Dresden learns that the woman's name is Lydia, and that she is afflicted by Cassandra’s Tears, a “prophetic condition”. Lydia believes an evil spirit is hunting her and that Dresden's help is her only chance to survive. She mentions one of her prophecies, “Wind. I see dark things and a dark war. I see my death coming for me, out of the spirit world. And I see you, at the middle of it all. You’re the beginning, the end of it. You’re the one who can make the path go different ways.” 

	Harry gives her a protective talisman and recommends her to Father Forthill at St. Mary’s. She departs. 

	He receives an ominous phone call, “Soon, Soon, Dresden, we will see one another again.”

	Bob messages through the radio that Agatha Hagglethorn is up to no good at Cook County Hospital. As Harry rushes out, he bumps into Michael, who just assumed Harry would need his help tonight, correctly.

5. Flashforward to the end of Chapter 2. Michael and Harry cross over to the Nevernever, battle Agatha Haglethorn on her own terf. After a struggle, the good guys win. Harry sees a spiritual, twisted, barbed wire wrapping Hagglethorn’s ghost; torturing her into madness. This proves that someone is behind stirring up the ghosts of Chicago for nefarious reasons. 

While all this is happening, the pair has been hearing the baying hounds of Harry’s Godmother approaching swiftly. As Harry and Michael are about to return to the mortal world, Harry’s Godmother Lea intercepts them. 

6. Lea invokes the debt Harry owes her, forcing Michael to step aside. Harry tricks her, by acting lulled into her trance and dumps the ghost dust on her, barely escaping back into the hospital nursery. Harry ponders how she found him so quickly in the expanse of the never-never. 

7. They land in jail. Charity collects Michael. Susan collects Harry. Harry and Susan discuss Michael, and their derailed date. They head back to Harry’s place where they are waylaid at the entrance by vampires. 

8. Kyle and Kelly Hamilton announce themselves as members of the Red Court. Kyle is a Herald under the accords and delivers an invitation to a party celebrating Bianca’s elevation in the Red Court. They depart, and Harry and Susan head inside. Susan snags the invitation and reads it. 

She wants to go to the ball, Harry forbids it. She whines about it, then they hook up. 

9.  Harry dreams, first of being held captive in thorn manacles by his godmother in a translucent crystal cave, and second, of watching his old master, Justin burn. He is awoken by Michael banging on the door.

  Michael and Harry go to St. Mary's where Harry had sent Lydia the night before. Something had torn up a parked car and several rose bushes outside of the church, without leaving any other signs of its presence. Father Forthill answers the door, and we learn that he and Harry had met before on a different case. Forthill describes how he took care of Lydia as she had a seizure due to the "gift" of Cassandra's tears. He goes on to describe how ten minutes later he heard the commotion outside that the thing was making, while calling for Lydia. Hee compelled it by the Holy Word and it went mad. After several hours he calmed Lydia down and set her to rest, but when he returned to her, she had left through the back door.

  Harry discusses plans as they return to his place, to seek out a local spirit guru, and sest Bob to investigate for him. He describes Lydia to Michael so that he can search for her.

10. Harry pays a visit to Mortimer Lindquist, who is currently trying to leave town as fast as he can. After Harry strongarms him a little, Morty explains that he thinks the veil between the real world and spirit world is thinning and more and more dangerous ghosts are being created and able to cross over. He also describes the "nightmare" that crossed over last night. Harry has a few words of advice regarding how Lindquist could reclaim some of his lost magical arts, and in return Mortimer tells him where his notes are.

11. Dresden returns home in a cab, because his car is impounded, to find S.I. Detectives Rudolph and Stallings waiting for him in his driveway. Murphy has requested his
help on a case, and despite being really crunched on time, they explain it is for Micky Malone who was around for the loup garou, and also for *a demon summoning sorceror* that Michael had helped take down. Harry agrees to go with them.     

As he gets out of the car he feels something is wrong, and discovers some mutilated animals in the front yard producing a bad energy due to their violent end. They head into
the house.

12. Harry stops at the threshold to wait for an invitation from Mrs. Malone. During smalltalk while waiting, Stallings relates that a lot of homeless people have been going missing. Harry suspects Bianca's party. Sonia Malone arrives and invites Dresden inside. She escorts them to the bedroom explaining that Micky couldn't sleep last night so she let him sleep in. Karrin Murphy is waiting for him, as Sonia turns back to prepare lunch. Harry finds Micky in the grips of a madness, attempting to scream and restrained from clawing at his own flesh. Murphy explains that Micky had attacked Sonia in the morning, and she called Murphy for help. Murphy is very upset, because this is one of her own team. She leaves to let Dresden get to work.

13. Dresden resorts to looking at Micky with his Sight and sees that he has been spiritually torn apart with a mysterious spell laid on him in the form of barbed wire of dark energy. Harry calls power to remove the working from Micky, which is incredibly painful for him and after he manages to pull it all away it turns on him. Murphy enters the room, and he sees her with his Sight as well, she opens the window and he manages to wrestle it out of the house and burn it. He closes the Sight and passes out for a few m
inutes.

When he comes to, he explains to Murphy about the psychic damage Malone had suffered and that he has been investigating the Nightmare, and vows to find it and kill it.

14. Harry returns home, coordinates some with Michael, then takes a call from Susan who asks about the demon summoning sorceror Leonid Kravos. He descends to the lab and wakes up Bob. To convince him to help he mentions returning him to Winter, which is the first we hear about a disagreement with Bob and Mab. Harry fills Bob in on the details of the case, and Bob gets scared and asks him to quit the case. Harry prods him and learns that something is stirring up the Never-never to get strong enough to cross over. Bob agrees to help him.

15. Bob explains the type of power that would be needed to do what Harry has described to him, and it is either something in a God-like category or something else that is using the rules in a different way. Harry sends Bob out in Mister to investigate, while he plans on tracking Lydia down through his talisman. 

16. Harry tracks her to an abandoned building near wicker park where he finds the ebbs have drugged her and have her in a parked van. While he is investigating what happened to her, he is attacked by Kyle & Kelly. A brief fight ensues, Harry is drugged with vamp venom, and accidentally blows the side of the building off, allowing sunlight to lightly roast Kelly. Kyle gets his sister to the van and speeds off. Harry fights through the drugged spit to find his way home. 

17. At home Harry concentrates to block out the drugs and pain, and to think about all the questions he had no real answers for. He eventually falls asleep and dreams. He dreams of the raid in which Michael, Murphy, several S.I. guys, and Harry captured a  rogue warlock, Kravos, and the demon he was summoning. In real life, all had gone according to plan, but in this version the demon kills most of them, finally taking a bite out of Harry which is when Bob-as-Mister wakes him up. Harry stumbles to the lab, and puts a protective circle up. Bob retreats to his skull and informs Harry he thinks he knows what is going on. 

18. Bob surmises that the Nightmare is reaching victims through their dreams. Harry tells Bob about his dream, and the two guess that the Nightmare is the ghost of the demon, when it was killed by Amorachius. They also reason that it is Bianca who is stirring it up and sending it after people. Harry settles in to get to work, and realizes he’s lost a lot of magical power to the Nightmare when it took a bite out of him. While trying to figure out where it would strike next, he realizes it is after revenge for its death, and that Murphy was probably next on the list. 

19. Harry rushes to Murphy’s office and confronts the demon - who has taken the shape of Harry. It was in mid-attack on Murphy, but promptly kicks Harry’s butt and leaves. Murphy is experiencing her own first class horrors that the Nightmare put in her head. Dresden requests Kravos’ spellbook from evidence, and puts a spell on Murphy to give her restful sleep. Rudolph and Dresden exchange words before Harry leaves the station. 

20. He races to Michael’s house and explains the situation to him. Charity had left a note explaining pregnancy cravings and had gone out for snacks. Father Forthill fortuitously appears to act as a babysitter. They go to the only open grocery store, where Harry bribes the clerk to learn that his doppelganger has wrecked Charity’s van and taken her towards the cemetery. 

21. Michael had gone looking through the store, so Harry is alone as he chases them towards the cemetery Dresden finds them and a fight ensues. As Harry is losing his fairy godmother, Lea, appears to offer him assistance in exchange for his life. He accepts the bargain, and Lea gives him a cryptic answer and leaves. He gets the Nightmare’s attention again, as it is torturing Charity, and incites it away from her. Michael shows up to do battle and Harry tries to get Charity out. Charity decides to go into labor instead. The Nightmare threatens both Harry and Charity, forcing Michael to drop Amoracchius. Dresden realizes his godmother’s clue was about running water and knocks the Nightmare down a hill into a stream. It melts; Harry retrieves the sword as Michael tends to Charity, just as Lea appears to claim Dresden. He gets the very stupid idea to use Amoracchius and that betrays the swords purpose allowing Lea to take the holy sword with her. 

22. They go to the hospital. Charity is admitted, and Harry realizes the cut he had on his head was healed by Lea, indicating she can work magic on him in the real world now, too. Stallings and Rudolph brought Murphy in, and drop off Kravos’ spellbook. Harry finds Michael and realizes there were complications with the pregnancy and the child might be in danger. They piece it together that the Nightmare must be working for someone else. Harry tells Michael about his arrangement with Lea. Harry prepares to track down the Nightmare using the spellbook. 

23. Harry reviews the spellbook while Michael drives them to Harry’s apartment and lab. In the lab Harry summons the demon, Azorthragal, who insists no one has sent him, but as Harry interrogates the Demon a third presence intercedes. Harry, on the fly, binds the demon to only attack him, and breaks the summoning. While he is recovering Harry and Michael decide to continue fighting, despite both of their reduced capacities. Harry notices someone has moved his invitation to Bianca’s ball. 

24. Harry explains to Michael why all indicators are pointing them towards Bianca’s party as they pull up to the event. All Harry needs to do is get close enough to feel the aura of their bad guy. (n.b. Harry muses on God and we hear the first mention of the Fallen then.) 

	  They approach the gate as a limo pulls up and Thomas Wraith and date arrive. Introductions are made and they head inside. Thomas explains what is expected throughout the evening and Harry is curious why Thomas would help him, and receives vague answers. They are introduced at the ball, where Dreden’s cheesy vampire costume insults everyone, immediately. 

25. Thomas bails them out of an awkward intro. Kyle and Kelly say hello, allowing Dresden to rule them out. Thomas returns to announce that the wine has been poisoned. 

26. Harry forces himself to vomit the wine, which has been laced with red court venom to avoid the appearance of targeting just Dresden. They identify a few more attendees who appear out of place in the general crowd and approach someone dressed as a Roman centurion. Harry introduces himself, and with a casual use of only part of his Name, the centurion let’s Dresden know he can pronounce it perfectly, without really trying. Michael deduces that this is Ferrovax, eldest of the remaining Dragons.

	Harry gets all smartass. Ferrovax crushes his will, and Michael verbally spars about having killed Siriothrax. Ferrovax relents and just disappears. Harry spies someone approaching Michael’s back and intercepts Susan, unexpectedly. She explains she swiped his invite to make a copy. He explains she is in danger, just as Lea appears to say the same thing. 

27. Susan protests everyone’s efforts to get her to leave the party. Harry starts to feel the effects of having broken his word to his Godmother three times over, as his powers start to turn against him. Lea offers to make a bargain with Susan to slow the onset of those symptoms on Harry. She settles on offering up one year of her memory. Harry recovers, Lea leaves, and Susan has no idea who they are. 

28. They convince Susan to head for her car, but are waylaid by Mavra, one of the last people Harry wanted to check for bad mojo, en route. Mavra knows Harry only has hospitality for one guest and demands he leave Michael or Susan behind. Things escalate and we learn Mavra is also a powerful wizard. Dresden realizes she cannot strike first, and a stalemate ensues until the hour of socialization is over. The doors are closed. Thomas appears and asks to stand with them as Court begins and they prepare to receive their guest gifts. 

29. Harry gathers his thoughts and inventories what he knows for certain, figuring out that all the recent events have been a ploy to get the White Council representative, him specifically, and friends to come to the party. Bianca finishes her initial speech and references, “Guests brought here to witness our ascension to real power” - as spotlights find Harry, Michael, Thomas, Susan, Justine, Lea, Ferrovax, and Mavra. 

	Mr. Ferro gathers his gift, then Thomas is called up, and Harry stays with Justine, who requests that he take them with him when he leaves. Thomas returns, having been offered a single one-way ticket to Hawaii. Harry is called to receive his gift. He and Bianca spar some over Paula, a woman Bianca ate after Harry provoked her to madness in her own home. Bianca blames Harry for her death. He calls her out for stirring up the spirit world and raising the Nightmare, and she seems to indicate that is not what had happened. 


	Bianca reveals her gift to Harry, a tombstone and plot in Graceland cemetary, and reveals her intentions for him and his guests to be dead by morning. Lea approaches the dais and exchanges Amoracchius for “something in a small leather case”.  Mavra approaches teh dais and is presented with Amoracchius, and Lydia is brought to the stage. Michael and Harry realize that they plan to unmake the Holy Sword. Against all of his better judgment, and Thomas’, and the rules of hospitality, they prepare for battle and Harry decides to, “do the right thing.”

30.  A fight ensures. Justine is taken hostage, causing Thomas to turn over Susan. Bianca orders Thomas killed anyway. Dresden loses it and calls up a firestorm, toasting a lot of Red Court vampires, as Michael starts to guide them towards an exit. 

	Lea intercepts them before they get a chance to exit, explaining only that she helped them escape and that Harry was too drained right now for her to claim him. Michael gets Harry to his truck, and promises to go back for Susan. Harry passes out. 

31. Harry wakes up in pain from burns and consumed by guilt that he let his powers get away from him. Michael goes to him and they talk about how the fire and subsequent investigation were handled. Lydia was rescued and is asleep on the couch. Susan’s whereabouts are unknown. Michael explains that he needs to be with his family now more than ever. 

	Thomas enters as Harry was about to see Michael out, and they subdue him to question him. He wants their help rescuing Justine, and confirms Susan is alive. His offer is to help rescue Susan, and he has brought Armoracchius as a “down payment”. Thomas explains that Bianca and her crew retreated to the remaining part of the mansion, taking mortals with them. They need to know more of the layout of the mansion before they can plan any sort of rescue. Harry hopes that Lysdia will be able to provide that insight. He is musing that it is odd that it was “so easy to get away” when Lydia starts to wake up, and realizes that her sleeping is a gateway for the Nightmare a moment too late as she grabs him and throws him at his stone fireplace. 

32. Thomas intercepts baseball-Harry. Michael confronts Lydia, and is set to off her when Harry explains that this is a possession not a manifestation and that they would hurt Lydia if they fought her. Harry gathers things for an exorcism and speaks the demon’s name, who promptly laughs at him. 

	Lydia starts choking Dresden out, as he finally puts together the clues to learn who the Nightmare is. He almost passes out as Thomas distracts Lydia/Nightmare by feeding on it. Harry resets the exorcism, and calls the Name, “Leonid Krovos” to banish the warlock’s spirit.  

	Post-fight Harry explains to Michael and Thomas that this is the ghost of the now deceased Leonid Kravos; created through a suicide ritual taught to him by Mavra and Bianca to gain vengeance on his captors. He believes, now that he knows what is going on, he can carry out a rescue plan. 

	They cross over to the Nevernever from Harry’s apartment , and Bob attempts to guide them to the place in the Nevernever that corresponds to BIanca’s mansion. This takes them through Faerie, where Lea finds them quickly - ready to conclude the bargain. 

33. She catches them. Dresden eats a poisonous death mushroom. Lea bargains with Michael for a treatment that will delay death long enough to get to a hospital in exchange for not pursuing Harry for a year and a day. She does call up her vassals to pursue them. Michael and Thomas stay to defend the bridge, while Harry goes through a rift into Bianca’s mansion, where he is promptly captured by vampires, and toyed with until he passes out. 

34. Harry awakes in a dark room with Justine, who is going a little loopy without Thomas to quiet the crazier parts of her. He is approached by the ghost of Rachel - the young woman Bianca fed on until she died. He is distracted by her briefly, while Justine falls asleep and is possessed by Kravos, who threatens to possess Dresden before he dies to consume the rest of his power. After Kravos leaves, Harry finds Susan in a corner and discovers that she has already been turned into a vampire, but doesn’t seem to have fed yet. 

35. Susan tries to eat Harry. He tells her he loves her, and manages to break through the spell his Godmother Lea used to mask Susan’s memories. Dresden gets the idea to go after Kravos while he is asleep. 

36.  Harry confronts Kravos in dreamspace while his real body dies, as Susan performs CPR, and produces a ghost making it 2 - 1 against Kravos. Harry eats him all up*. He wakes up, with his magic back. Dresden blows up the doors locking them in the cell and is promptly apprehended by Kyle.

* FIrst reference to devouring a spirit to gain its power. See also: Dark Hallow. 

37. A brief scuffle ensues and Dresden incinerates Kyle and Kelly with a spell he learned residually from Kravos’ power. A relevant passage hinting that Butcher knew Susan’s fate from the beginning: 

	“They were vampires, some part of me said. They had it coming. They were monsters.
	I glanced aside, at Susan, who stood panting, her white shirt stained dark brown with blood. She stared at the fire, her eyes dark and wide, the whites filled in with black.”

	Harry recovers his gear and Bob in an alcove in the basement, and while conferring with Bob, they notice Susan is missing. They assume Bianca mind-controlled her into leaving since there was no scuffle, thus deducing that Bianca might have wizarding powers as well. Dresden prepares and ascends the stairs to the courtroom, where Bianca awaits with henchmen and Susan. She orders them to open fire. 

38. Dresden deflects all the bullets. He throws a shot of fire at Bianca and is surprised that she is able to deflect it. She admits that Mavra was her instructor. Bianca introduces Ortega, who is there as a witness only. He points out that Dresden has violated the Accords and hospitality law in several ways, and Bianca, technically has not. 

	With the threat of war between the White Council and the Red Court hanging in the balance, Bianca offers to forgive all in exchange for Susan; taking away something as dear to Dresden as Rachel was to Bianca. Harry refuses, shocking Ortega and Bianca, who clearly thought they could force his hand. She loses her human form and goes berserk. Harry calls the spirits of the dead, that the vampires had murdered over the years to battle and they do. Just as Bianca is about to murder Susan the shade of Rachel intervenes, and Bianca hits her instead. Bianca, and Rachel, and all the shades are sucked down into the inferno below, as Justine, Susan, and Harry escape. 

39. Dresden awakes in the same hospital room as Charity. The new Carpenter baby is doing better and they have decided to name him Harry. He recovers enough to attend Kravos’ funeral with Murphy. We learn that Lydia had left St. Mary’s because she was afraid of falling asleep and succumbing to the Nightmare. She is packed off with the Church for protection. 

	Susan is communicative, but stand-offish, and Harry finally has to track her down. She explains some of how life is challenging for her since the change. He proposes, she refuses.  She tells him not to come find her again. 

	Harry goes all in trying to find a vampirism cure, when one likely does not exist. The Council gets dragged into a war with the Red Court, and is planning on coming to Chicago, and will want an explanation. Harry gets used to staying in and keeping his guard up. 
