Storm Front

1. Harry Dresden, is a modern day, wizard-for-hire. He's in the Chicago yellow pages. "Lost items found. Paranormal Investigations. Consulting. Advice. Reasonable Rates. No Love Potions, Endless urses, or Other Entertainment." He has been out of work and is in need of money. When receives a call from a potential client he jumps at the chance to set up an appointment.

2. Before the woman can arrive, he is called by Lieutenant Karrin Murphy, Director of the Special Investigations (SI) Unit of the Chicago Police Department, who asks him to come to a crime scene as a consultant. Murphy's partner, Ron Carmichael, shows him the bodies of two people in a hotel room. Their hearts had been ripped out of their chests by unknown forces mid-coitus. The victims are Jennifer Stanton, an escort from The Velvet Room, and Tommy Tomm, an enforcer of the local crime lord, Johnny Marcone. He is hired by SI as a consultant to find the killer.

3. While rushing back to the appointment he made earlier, "Gentleman" Johnny Marcone, intercepts Dresden to drive him back to his office. Marcone tries to hire Dresden away from the case, offering a contract to not participate in the investigation. During the conversation Dresden and Marcone share a soulgaze(p34, soulgaze). Dresden turns down Marcone's offer, and returns to his office.

4. He just makes his appointment with a woman named Monica Sells. She hires him to find her husband, Victor Sells, an amateur wizard who has been dabbling in magic and recently gone missing. She gives him a scorpion charm that she claims Victor had been using, informs him of a lake house they own that she thinks he might have retreated to, provides a $500 cash advance.

5. Dresden heads to McAnally's pub to sort through the day's events. Here he first discusses ThreeEye, a mysterious new street drug that supposedly gives users second-sight. He is interrupted by Susan Rodriguez (p55 - first meeting), who is looking for a story for the Arcane. He makes a date with her on Saturday evening.

6. Dresden returns home to gather some supplies then drives to the lake house. He snoops around some, picks up a film canister, and then summons Toot-toot, trapping him in a circle, whom he asks if anyone had been around the lake house. Toot returns and informs Harry that there was a pizza delivery to mortals who had been 'sporting' and needed to recover their strength. We also learn that the fairies have been watching Harry.

7. Morgan the warden catches Harry summoning Toot-toot, and we learn of the Doom of Damocles. Morgan believes Harry killed Jennifer Stanton and Tommy Tomm. This accelerates the timeline for Harry to find the killers, because now the White Council officially suspects him of committing the murders.

8. Harry heads home, consults Bob the Skull on potion making. Creates an escape potion and a love potion.

9. Dresden, against Murphy's express wishes, goes to the Velvet Room to confront Bianca the Vampiress. She, also, think he murdered them and clearly cared about Jennifer Stanton. He realizes he misstepped and made an enemy of Bianca. She does give him a phone number for Linda Randall, a friend of Jennifer Stanton's, follow up on.

10. He calls Linda's number but she refuses to talk. Harry heard airport announcements in the background and rushes to O'hare, where he finds Linda Randall driving a limo for the Beckitts, Helen and Greg. She still doesn't offer up much information, but he does give her is business card. Dresden subsequently follows up with the Pizza S'press driver. Someone else had called him and he was feeling strong-armed. He leans on the guy and learns that there was a wild orgy-tastic party going on. Upon returning to his home he is assulted and warned to get off the case.

11. Dresden works all night to devise how someone could perform the spell required to kill Jennifer Stanton and tommy Tomm. It requires a ridiculous amount of energy and doesn't seem to make sense. He takes it to murphy at SI. While waiting he gets drawn into stopping a ThreeEye addict who recgnizes him as a wizard and sees a shade that follows Harry. This lends credence to the ThreeEye being a magical drug. Murphy and Dresden reach the conclusion that the ThreeEye supplier and the murders are linked in a gang related turf war over drugs in Chicago.

12. Harry has a concussion. Murphy takes him home. He gets a phone call from Linda Randall asking to meet. He calls Monica Sells to update her on the case of Victor Sells and she tries to hide his call and tells him to get off the case. He then passes out.

13. He awakes to a thunderstorm. He had completely forgotten about his date with Susan and she comes knocking at his door. He then remembers he is also to meet up with Linda Randall, and is furiously trying to figure out how to reconcile the two women without appearing a jerk when a demon-toad breaks in to kill everything it can.

14. They retreat to the sub-basement and into a protective circle. Harry had told Susan to drink the escape potion, but she had downed the love potion instead. They both take the escape potion and get outside as wind. A shadowy projection of the warlock appears to threaten Dresden. He realizes that the sorceror must be an amateur who learned how to tap massive amounts of power, but has no finesse. Harry then channels the storm to destroy the demon's form in the mortal world, which gives him the clue that the killer must also be using the storms. Morgan appears and assumes Dresden summoned the Demon and convenes the White Council to pass judgement on the Doom of Damocles - adding even more time pressure.

15. A cruiser comes along to escort him to the next crime scene, which is Linda Randall. She had been killed with the same storm that summoned the demon that attacked Harry. Murphy reveals that the Beckitts, Linda's employers, had a grudge against Marcone for their daughter dying years earlier in a gang shootout. Harry reveals he'd gone to the Velvet Room. Murphy is angry he hadn't shared the information he got there. She asks him to the station for questioning the next morning regarding the information he had withheld.

16. Harry walks to think things through. He's assaulted again, this time the attacker takes some of his hair. Harry fights back, and recognizes one of Johnny Marcone's thugs as the assailant. He manages to get some blood from under his fingernails where he scratched the man.

17. He uses a spell to track his attacker to The Varsity Club - owned by Johnny Marcone. He blows the doors off of it, confronts Marcone, and in an altercation Hendricks kills Harry's attacker.

18. Out of ideas and clues Dresden wanders to Linda Randalls apartment and lays down on the floor next to her bed. As he drags himself out of despair, he spies a film canister that is a match to the one he found in Chapter 6.

19. As he is headed to leave someone enters the apartment. Posing as a CPD authority he confronts the man and learns he was the photographer, Donny Wise, returning to collect the film he had shot that had gotten Linda Randall killed. She had hired him to get evidence of the sex rituals going on at the lake house to use for blackmail.

20. Harry goes to confront Monica Sells, now reasonably sure that Victor Sells is a warlock, he wants to know as much information as he can. He notices that she has been abused, and that her children are scared. He falls into a soulgaze and realizes that she contacted him to protect her children more than anything.

21. Monica Sells tells Dresden all about how Victor Sells fell into dark magic and why. Harry leaves and tries to contact Murphy. He learns from Carmichael that she is serving a warrant at his office. He calls his office and gets her, the line cuts off as she opens the drawer with the scorpiam charm in it.

22. Harry finds Murphy injured and poisoned, and a scorpion that is growing in size. Murphy handcuffs Harry to her then passes out. Harry does battle with the scorpion. Elevator, whoosh, smash. He manages to work Murphy's hand out of the cuffs and handsher over to the EMTs.

23. He goes to McAnally's to borrow a car. Gets confronted by Morgan as the one using the storms to commit murders. Knocks Morgan out and races for the lake house.

24. He gets to the lake house. Uses his sight to see all the dark energy.

25. He enters the lake house, confronts Victor Sells, Helen Beckitt, and Greg Beckitt, and finds a huge stach of the ThreeEye drug, which is a potion that Victor has been making.

26. Harry gets shot in the hip. Victor summons a demon, but clumsily giving Harry it's name, Kalshazzak, the same toad demon from the night before. Victor makes more scorpions. The house catches on fire. Dresden manages to push Victor over the edge of the balcony into the awaiting scorpion pit on the first floor. Morgan enters at the last minute and rescues Harry.

27. The White Council convenes. Due to his actions they lift the Doom of Damocles.

Outstanding questions and thoughts:

1. The junkie who saw Dresden with the ThreeEye potion says, "I see things that follow, those who walk before and He Who Walks Behind! They come for you!"
