Summer Knight

1. On the same day the White Council was coming to Chicago, Billy the werewolf called Harry Dresden. It was raining toads - real ones. It is also a good excuse to get Harry's attention, because he has been reclusive since the war with the Red Court started. Billy admits he had intruded and set up a meeting for Harry with a Ms. Sommerset, which pisses Harry off. They are attacked by some ghouls, after which, Harry has a change of heart and thanks Billy for intervening. Still pouring toads.

2. Harry drops Billy off at home and reflects briefly on how he's let things fall apart in his obsession to cure vampirism. He honors the appointment Billy made for him and arrives at his office to find Ms. Sommerset waiting. After a brief Q&A Harry deduces he is dealing with one of the Fae. He pulls a gun, then a nail, and Ms. Sommerset admits to being of Fae. She explains his debt to the Leanansidhe has passed to her, and when he denies it, she proves it by controlling Dresden to slam a letter opener into his own hand. The chapter ends with her introducing herself as Mab, Queen of Air and Darkness.

3. Mab offers Harry a way out of his debt by fulfilling three tasks for her.After some haggling, he agrees. Mab produces an envelope of information regarding the death of Ronald Reuel, and requests Harry solve his murder and return any stolen item.

4. After a few moments musing that this couldn't be a good case if Mab wanted him involved, Harry returns home briefly, and then on to the council meeting. He meets Ebenezar in the parking garage. We learn the backstory of Harry's apprenticeship to McCoy, and how he landed there. Ebenezar insists Harry needs to meet with some fellow Senior Council members before the full council meeting, which angers Harry, who does not think he needs to suck up to them for politics. Martha Liberty and Listens to Wind reveal themselves from behind a veil. Liberty and McCoy squabble some, during which she says, *"You know what he was meant to be. He's too great a risk."*, however, she relents and agrees to support Ebenezar in the full council meeting. Listens to Wind introduces himself and also agrees to help. Ebenezar was also expecting Simon Pietrovich, but it is revealed that two days ago his tower fell to the Red Court. The wardens suspect he was betrayed by someone who knew his wards. More, this means that they do not have enough votes on the Senior Council, without Simon, to prevent the Merlin from trying to lay the blame for the whole war and several other things with Harry.

5. They depart for the meeting, Harry entering last to avoid any bad impression for Ebenezar, whom he then proceeds to sit beside once he gets past Morgan the warden hassling him on the way in. McCoy advises him that the Merlin will try to get at him three ways during the meeting. The Merlin attempts to call a vote right away for his choice for Sr. Council, but is interrupted and forced to call the full registry of wizards. He asks Wizard Peabody, "a slim faced, prim-looking wizard [sat] with a quill, a bottle of ink, and pages and pages of parchment." McCoy gets a seat on the senior council.

There is an update on the war, including messages sent to the Summer and Winter Courts attempting to secure passages through the ways. Summer has replied negatively. Winter has not yet replied. The Merlin, via LaFortier reveals that the Red Court has sued for peace, with the condition that the Council turn over Dresden.

6. Debate ensues, some wizards for, others against, with LaFortier being the cheerleader to turn Dresden over. We learn Justin DuMorne was apprentice to Simon Pietrovich -- LaFortier suggests this might be a way Dresden knew the defenses. He further suggests Dresden never deserved to be a full council member, given that he was admitted as a result of him killing DuMorne. Ebenezar succeeds in reducing that to a vote of the Senior Council only. The vote ties three to three. The gatekeeper waits for the messenger from winter, and in the confusion asks Harry, "Has Mab chosen an Emissary?"  Harry responds, "Yes." and leaves Harry with the question, "Why has she appointed a mortal Emissary, young wizard?" -- "Balance. Redress the imbalance, young wizard. Resolve the situation. Prove your worth beyond doubt."

  The Gatekeeper proposes a trial to secure the ways through Winter. There is some debate, and then Harry agrees. 

7. The meeting disperses and Harry heads to Murphy's house to start his investigation. She answers the door acting incredibly suspicious and distant. It's revealed her first husband had died, and she was having trouble dealing with it. Harry talks to her some about Justin and Elaine to try to connect. He notices that she has been taking pills and drinking, and she admits it is the only way she can sleep since the psychic attack she experienced from Kravos. 

  Murphy prints out what she can on the murder of Ronald Reuel. She then falls asleep on the couch and Harry let's himself out, returning home to get some rest. He opens his door to find Elaine waiting for him in his apartment. 

8. After verifying her identity, they briefly discuss her enthrallment to Justin and why she attacked Harry. She explains that he couldn't find her because she found sanctuary in the Summer Court and now owes a favor to Titania, at which point Harry deduces she must be the Summer emissary. He suggests going to the council, and Elaine points out how horrible they have been to Harry, and doesn't expect them to be any better towards her. As he is trying to convince her there is a loud banging at the door and Morgan announces himself and demands entry. 

9. Harry hides Elaine in the bedroom and answers the door to start exchanging verbal jabs with Morgan. He prods Dresden by insinuating Susan was never interested in him and saying that she was just a pawn of the Red Court. Harry becomes angry and draws his sword cane, before realizing that Morgan was trying to goad him into a physical fight in order to kill him. Harry calls him out on it and Morgan denies it, but departs. Witnessing this makes Elaine decide she wants nothing to do with the Council, and she departs under a veil, promising to contact him soon. Harry passes out on the couch. 

10. He has a nightmare about Susan, takes a shower and cleans up, then goes to his lab. Bob tells Harry that Reuel was the Summer Knight and explains the Knights role in settling mortal affairs for the Sidhe.  If something had been stolen, it seems likely it was the power of the Summer Knight's mantle not returning to Summer causing an imbalance between the courts that must be resolved to avoid climatic cataclysm.  They continue to make a list of suspects and dialogue out some exposition, including that there are six faerie queens. Harry heads out to start investigating. 

11. Harry sets out to break into Reuel's apartment, but when he gets there he discovers a thug already rifling through the place looking for something. Dresden tries to get a better look by imitating a FTD flower delivery, but the man smells wizard on him and attacks. Harry stabs him with an iron nail, and Grum reveals that he is an ogre. Ogre Grum is about to squash Harry when the apparently elderly neighbor yells at them to quit all the noise. Not wanting to risk mortal involvement Grum leaves. Harry ponders the picture he managed to retrieve from Grum's satchel of 4 youths and Reuel, as he leaves the building. 

12. Still puzzled, Dresden goes to Reuel's funeral, leaving most of his arsenal in the car, because too many people attending might take it as a threat. He doesn't find anything peculiar at the viewing and as he ducks out he overhears a conversation that interests him. It is Fix, Ace, and Meryl discussing Lily's disappearance. Ace discloses that "the wizard" was here, and they head for the back alley. Harry sneaks after them, and is quickly discovered then presently dispatched into the local dumpster where Billy the Werewolf finds him a few minutes later. Conveniently, Billy brought the pizza.

13. Harry summons Toot-toot, while Billy tries to pick up the scent of the four that Harry had followed into the alley. Toot-toot and his crew arrive, and tell Harry that they haven't been called yet, and he can't force them to do Winter's bidding as the emissary. Harry promises that he won't make them. Harry comments on their arms and armor and Toot explains that the drawing of the wyldfae is beginning. Harry offers pizza as payment for information, and the little wyldfae agree. Dresden wants to know where Maeve is so he can start questioning the queens of faerie. Toot tells him that Maeve is in Undertown and that Aurora is atop a building in Chicago. Toot agrees to provide a guide before Harry let's them have the pizza. Toot-toot fetches Elidee, a tiny faerie who communicates yes and no via pulses of light. Billy returns and they head to Undertown.

14. Elidee guides them to an Undertown entrance. Harry explains some of the dangers of interacting with faeries to Billy. Shortly past the entrance they encounter Grimalkin, who is to guide them to the Winter Lady. He does so, and Billy and Dresden find the Winter court in the middle of a 1940s big band soiree. The lead trumpeter literally plays his horn to death as part of Maeve's entrance. Harry comes right out and asks Maeve if she arranged for the Winter Knight to be killed. When she is done laughing at him, Maeve reminds him that knowledge has a price and invites him to bargain for it. 

15. Maeve opens with requesting his first born and tries to have her handmaid seduce him, but he quells that with a nice pitcher of ice water to the groin. He has some harsh words for the Winter Lady, reminding her that he is her guests and she has tried glamour against him. Lloyd Slate, the Winter Knight arrives, commenting that he knew Dresden would not be so easily captured as he passes a box to Maeve. Wasting no time, Harry asks Slate if he was responsible for Reuel's murder. He informs Dresden that he wasn't sure he could if he wanted to. Maeve has had time to inspect the contents of the box and flies into a rage at Lloyd Slate, both for answering Dresden and because the knife that he had delivered to her "was useless" to her, covered in some black gooey substance. Harry starts to leave, claiming that he sees now Maeve is not powerful enough, and too reckless to have killed the Summer Knight. Once outside Harry ruminates on how he has more questions than answers. Mab, Maeve, and Grimalkin have all tried to hurry him along, so he knows something will happen, likely a war between the courts, but not how or when. As they exit Undertown, they are jumped by the same kids who dumped him in the alley. Billy tackles one, but the large woman grabs Dresden by the neck. 

16. Dresden calls Billy off, and the tall, muscular woman puts him down. Harry demands to know who they are. Meryl introduces herself and Fix, and explains that, along with Lily and Ace, they were changelings under the Winter Court and under the protection of Ronald Reuel from Lloyd Slate, who had a sadistic thing for Lily, and Maeve, who would routinely torture them. They implore him to look into Lily's disappearance, and offer to pay triple his rate with cash up front. Dresden begrudgingly agrees, and heads to the parking lot. After directing Billy to call all the hospitals and morgues looking for Lily, he approaches his car to find a nearly dead Elaine bleeding in the backseat. 

17. Elaine barely manages to insist on not going to a hospital, but instead to Aurora's court at the Rothschild Hotel. Harry races there, and Elidee shows him the entrance. He is met by a young woman who ushers him to the roof, which was akin to a Borneo rain forest. Harry is confronted by Korrick, a centaur who really doesn't like winter-bound folks, and Talos, the Lord Marshall of the Summer Court. Talos calms Korrick and provides some aid to Elaine while they wait for the Summer Lady to attend to her. Harry quickly deduces that the lady who led him in is Aurora, the Summer Lady. He again implores her to help Elaine, and Aurora says that depends on why Mab chose him to be her emissary. She reminds him of the various bargains he has made, that he has killed people, and that his own godmother is second in power only to Mab. Aurora offers Dresden some respite from his emotional and physical pains and traumas if he agrees to renounce winter. He refuses, and they continue to talk about why Summer is readying to go to war with Winter. Midsummer is 2 days away and, lacking the power of the knight's mantle, Summer fears that it will grow too weak to defend itself, so must attack before then. Aurora agrees to help Elaine, and Harry tells her he will sort this mess out before midsummer. 

18. Harry and Murph meet up at a Walmart after midnight, where he concedes to let her in on the workings of the supernatural world, because he feels he is in over his head and she is the only one that he can trust currently. He tells her much of the past events in the series. Murphy suggests looking for motive and discusses a lead they have on the lead ghoul, a hitter nick named the Tigress. They discuss the other dead ends, and Harry resolves to see the other faerie Queens as as soon as he can arrange it. Then all the lights go out in the Walmart. 

19. They quickly observe a mind fog that is incapacitating the Walmart employees, and attempt to find an exit through the back. Blocked from that, Harry empowers a circle long enough to create a charm to keep the fog from Murphy and prepare his own mental defenses. They then try to exit through the garden center where they are attacked by the Tigress. Murphy is gripped by her recurring fear, but overcomes it and empties an entire clip into the ghoul. The Tigress scurries away just as Grum the Ogre attacks. Karrin shouts that a sniper is covering the exits. Harry runs looking for a weapon and winds up in the garden yard outside. Grum locks the gate behind him trapping Harry in the outdoor chain-link fence enclosed area. He stacks some nursery trees to climb up over the fence and they promptly turn into a chlorofiend and start whomping on him. 

20. He manages to lead it between aisles and conjures a windstorm to bury the chlorofiend in steel shelving.  Murphy meets him and cuts him out with a pair of bolt cutters, despite having twisted her knee slipping on some marbles some idiot thought would trip up an ogre. All the exits seem to be covered by one of the threats. 

21. They exit to confront Grum. Murphy pretends to be more injured than she is and when Dresden and Grum are exchanging threats she fires up a chainsaw and cuts into his knee.  While he is enraged and chasing Murphy, Dresden soaks him with a super-soaker filled with gasoline and sets Grum on fire. Grum retreats to the never-never. Harry goes to get a vehicle taking Murphy's gun with him. He finds a hole in the fence trimmed cleanly and covered in frost. He makes his way to his car and on his way back is attacked by the chlorofiend. He drives the beetle into it a few times until it is cut in half and then goes to retrieve Murphy. He finds her just as the monster attacks again. It has Harry by the throat, and is winning, right before Murphy fires up the chainsaw again and goes full lumberjack on the chlorofiend. Harry, disoriented, gets them both in the car and drives, just as they start taking fire from the sniper again. 

22.  At Billy and Georgia's Murphy gets some first aid and shipped off to the hospital. Harry talks briefly with Meryl on the balcony, learning that changelings need to choose which side they want to be on, Sidhe or mortal. Meryl is still undecided, but we do learn her dad was a troll. Alone on the balcony Harry tries to puzzle through who could have been behind the Walmart attacks. As he does, he sees twin storm fronts move together and start a thunderstorm, presaging the beginning of the upcoming battle between Summer and Winter. 

23. Harry drives north of town to a secluded lake shoreline and summons his godmother, the Leanansidhe. They squabble, as always, Harry learns that the athame she received in *Grave Peril* is an artifact in league with the Swords of the Cross. Lea proclaims that she is always trying to protect him, and let's "slip" that it was part of the arrangement made with his mother, that she will protect him, and gives him several examples where she has been nearby helping, in her own way. He requests that they visit Mab and Titania, and she warns him she can't protect him from them and then takes him to Chicago over Chicago, where the battlefield is being prepared. Lea explains the function of the stone table and warns him to never let Mab take him to the table, ever. Harry looks upon field with his wizard's sight and sees the vast amounts of energy being spent. He reasons, without talking to Titania or Mab, that both do not know who has the mantle of the Summer Knight. Mab, would not be rushing if she did, and Titania, would not be pushing Mab if Summer wasn't at a disadvantage, indicating neither Queen knew what was going on. Harry insists he still needs to talk to the Mothers, but Lea cannot help him with this. He returns to the beetle, which promptly catches on fire, and he is left at dawn, no car, no leads, and only 15 hours to go. 

24. Harry calls a wrecker, and takes a cab home. He stalls a bit then calls Edinburgh. He asks for McCoy, and gets Morgan instead. Despite pleading to get a message to the senior Morgan gets all fanatical and hangs up on him. After calming himself from a fit of rage he resolves to solve this himself, prepares, and tracks Elaine down at a hotel restaurant near O'hare having breakfast. She tells him what she remembers of her attack, and he shares how he knows it was Lloyd Slate. He asks he for help to speak to the Mothers, and she attempts to talk him into running away like she plans to do. He talks her into helping him meet the Mothers. They leave where a carriage hauled by a corpse-like horse and a grass-green horse pulls up to take them away.

25. The carriage delivers them to a place in the Nevernever, where they follow a raven towards a light in the woods. Along the way they encounter a winter, guardian unicorn. After a brief squabble, Elaine captures its attention with a spell full of little motes of memory. She holds it while Harry proceeds to the Mothers. 

26. Harry runs through the woods towards the light until he finds a stone cottage. As he approaches the door opens on its own and a voice says that they've been expecting him. Inside he encounters Mother Winter, confined to a rocking chair and worse for wear because it is not her season, and Mother Summer who is brightly cleaning the cottage. He agrees to answer a question for them for each question they answer of his. 

The Mothers guide him to question how the power of the mantles is passed, and he learns that they must reside with a Queen or a Knight. He asks how the mantle passes from one Knight to another, and learns that the mantle first returns to a Queen, and that Queen then chooses the next Knight. Through this he deduces that Aurora must have chosen a new Summer Knight and concealed it somehow. Mother Winter gives Harry an unraveling that can undo any enchantment. On his way out he apologizes for harassing their unicorn, but they seem unaware of any unicorn. On his way back he gets jumped by Grum and Elaine and knocked out. 

27. Harry comes to encircled in a ring of toadstools that limit his power, facing Aurora & Co. He calls out the Lord Marshall and Korrick and they change from Grum and the unicorn back into their normal shapes. Aurora then mind reads Harry to see how much he knows. He reveals that he knows Lloyd Slate killed Ronald Reuel, and that Aurora collected the mantle and placed it in the changeling girl Lily, whom she imprisoned in stone. The plan is to kill Lily on the stone table allowing the power of the Summer Knight to permanently go to winter, upsetting the balance of power. Aurora is crazed by the never ending war between Summer and Winter and think that this will end it for good. Lloyd thinks that he will be getting the power of the Summer Knight, which Harry informs him he will not. Chapter ends with Lloyd drawing his sword to kill Harry. 

28. Elaine stops Slate, pointing out that he would break the circle and allow Harry to use a death curse. Instead Elaine binds him and Aurora calls water into the earth to let him slowly sink. Mortal magic remains when they cross the Nevernever boundary, but faerie magic does not, so Harry is freed from the circle once they leave, but still bound by Elaine's spell.  He pieces together that it is the same spell from their childhood and he can break it as soon as Aurora's circle drops but he is over his head in mud by then. He gets free with a blast of force propelling him into a nearby tree. The Gatekeeper happens along and helps him down. 

The Gatekeeper points out that Harry has fulfilled his trial and could walk away now if he wanted to. Of course, Harry refuses. The Gatekeeper reveals he would have voted against Harry had he stepped aside, and gives him an ointment that will allow him to see through Faerie glamour, and a chip of the stone table so that he can find it. He then opens a gateway directly to Harry's driveway, and Harry is back at his apartment. 

29. Dresden gears up, and the Alphas, Meryl, and Fix pick him up. Using the stone they head towards the lake. Along the way Harry describes Aurora's master plan, and explains that he needs them to help him navigate the battlefield freely. The Alphas get eye ointment and change into their wolf forms, and they head for the harbor, where they are ambushed by the ghoul, Tigress. Meryl is shot, but not too badly. The Alphas take out the Tigress, and disable Ace, who was the rifleman shooting at them. After some convincing, Ace reveals he was instructed by the Red court to kill Dresden as the price to protect him from Maeve and the Winter court. He says he is worried about Mab's calling and how, as changelings, they feel it. He runs off, and they let him go; then proceed to the end of the pier where magical stairs await for them to climb to the clouds. 

30. They emerge into a raging battle where a Sidhe warrior guides them to Mab. Mab tells them the best chance of getting to the stone table is along the river where she still holds control. They make their way to the river and run for it. 

31. There is an encounter with some bees from summer, then they run into Aurora, Lloyd Slate, Talos, and Korrick. Korrick has the statue of Lily strapped to his back. Harry attempts to convince Aurora that her plan has been discovered and it's over. She gets crazy and breaks for the stone table instructing the rest to kill Dresden and company. 

32. Harry raises a shield just high enough to trip the horses, and soon is embattled with Talos. Meryl intervenes to help and gets stabbed from behind by Slate. Harry, in a fit of rage, hurls lightening at Slate, taking him down. Talos attacks him, knocking aside his blasting rod and staff, which is when Dresden shoots him with a .357. Twice. Then clubs him unconscious with the butt of the gun. Lloyd has recovered and bashes Harry in the head with the haft of a spear, takes his gun and almost shoots Harry in the face. Fix attacks Slate with a monkey wrench at the exact right time, and proceeds to beat Slate unconscious. They are set upon by even more Summer Sidhe warriors as they are attempting to regroup, but a dozen Winter Sidhe arrive to assist, led by Maeve, who tells them they should be clear to go upstream to get to the stone table. 

They arrive at the stone table just as Korrick places the statue of Lily on it and turns to attack them. Billy and the werewolves engage him to distract him. Harry calls wind to snatch the unraveling and run, but Aurora quickly catches him and retrieves it, leaving him bound by her spell and calling a giant thorny hedge around the hill of the stone table. A Sidhe in green armor catches him distracted and attempts to stab Harry through the throat with a spear. 

33. The spear slams into the ground beside him and Elaine dismounts, helping him out of Aurora's binding. After a few moments of agonizing about trust issues with Elaine, he convinces her to hold open the wall of thorns so that he can run through. Aurora has just finished using the unraveling, bringing Lily back from stone, when Dresden bashes her skull from behind with his staff. She recovers and pushes him away. Talos manages to clear the wall of thorns and engages Harry, but before he can do much Meryl, in her now-chosen troll form, roars into view pushing past the poison thorns, hideously wounded, but still enraged enough to tackle Talos. 

Aurora is dragging Lily back to the table, and Harry recovers the knife. Aurora is about to rip out Lily's throat with her bare hands when Harry releases Toot-toot and his merry band of little folk armed with steel box cutters. Zippity zip - one dying summer lady in 30 minutes or less or your money back. Aurora attempts to cast herself on the stone table, but Harry tackles her, and she dies. 

34. Eventually, the Queens find him. Titania takes Aurora's body and departs. Mab confirms he has succeeded, securing the White Council's ways in Winter, and expunging one of the three debts owed. She offers him the mantle of Winter Knight, which he refuses. He remembers Ebenezar and Billy and the Gatekeeper getting him out of there, and wakes up on his couch in his apartment. Billy is there. Harry cleans himself up, as he does he notices his place is surprisingly neat and tidy. He heads outside to meet the new Summer Lady and Knight - Lily and Fix. They have a nice visit and depart. Elaine shows up next, saying she was clear of her debt from Summer and giving Harry an unsolicited lecture about not wallowing in self-loathing. He decides to go to Billy and Geogia's for game night. *Lord, what fools these mortals be.* 
